# lucychoi1215.github.io

Documentation

Project Name: 30MFF Website

Project Description: 30MFF website is a project that features our group's film made in 30 minutes. Due to a constrained time frame given to us, we were unable to produce a high-quality or a sophisticated video compared to the actual films that are featured in currently existing film festivals. Taking the idea of "novice" further, I wanted to design a website that can be easily navigated by the users; my website doesn't have tons of information and texts to read and each elements are spaced out so that the it gives off a light-weight and an enjoyable experience to the users.

Process: First, I designed a simple, low-fidelity wireframes using Adobe XD and implemented them onto the website using HTML and CSS. I wanted to make the website welcoming and easy-to-tackle for existing and potential users of the website. So I searched up illustrations related to film and traced it up using Adobe Illustrator in which I added my own color palette then exported it as a png file. Using the colors on the png file as the main palette, I designed the other two web pages so that the designs on the web pages are consistent throughout. I also made sure there were several ways to access the film so that they don't have to look for a single link embedded somewhere on the website. Elements that required user action such as buttons were made to be intuitive through its design; border around the text and a simple hover animation was added so that the users know it's a button.

Reflection/ Evaluation: I spent a lot more time designing and implementing the color palette than the actual coding mainly because I wanted the website to look like an actual running website. Initially, I was going to make the website look professional by using high-resolution images as the hero-banner on the homepage, but later changed my mind because I felt that the content of the website did not match the overall theme I was going for. So I looked up film illustrations, picked the one I thought would go well, traced it into a vector image and exported it as a png file. In the process, I had to change the colors on the illustrations several times to make sure the background color created enough contrast for texts to be legible. 

Also, getting the elements and divs to stay in the exact place I wanted was time-consuming. I had to change either the font-size, the width and the height of images and divs by minor amounts and check every time to make sure they were placed on the exact spot I wanted. 

In terms of the final version, I'm satisfied with how it turned out. In the process of building it, I had to adjust my creative thoughts to my coding skills so a lot of the things that I wanted to implement on the website are very much simplified. However, because it's so simplified, it's easy for people to navigate it as a first time user which is something I had put at the back of my mind while designing the website, but also something that I gradually put a lot of significance to towards the end of the project.