Project Name: Three Ways to Get Your Tasty Food in NYUAD!
Project Description:
Our video project is aimed to show and compare for the user about the three major ways that they could get food on campus in NYUAD if they ever come here to study and also they could decide which of these three methods would be the most convenient or efficient method for themselves.

Process: How did you go about implementing the concept
VIDEO
Initially for our project, we thought of various interesting ideas such as making a video about funny but useless life hacks or a how-to video about how to be random things such as how to be a puppet master or how to bargain in Korea or even how to raise an infant the vegan way and many more random ideas. However, after a lengthy discussion and reconsideration of these ideas, we decided to create a video where we will show the three main methods that we could get food on campus in NYUAD, which will be getting food from D2, Sushi Counter, and online delivery. After we’ve decided on our idea, we later thought that it would be an even better idea if we could create three separate videos for each method and place them next to each other so the user could view and compare all three videos about each method to get food.

After deciding on our idea and what we wish to film, we proceeded to write out a basic script for how we imagined the video for each method would look like and how we could make it look more professional and cinematic. Throughout the filming process, we tried our best to capture everything that was going on in the video in as many different angles as possible such as utilizing various wide angle shots from the corner of the room, over-the-shoulder shots when ordering food, close up and insert shots to show what the main character was looking at and much much more to make it more interesting to look at for the user. Some major difficulties we encountered during the filming process was trying to keep the camera as steady as possible without a camera holder or something and we were filming with just a phone. It was extremely difficult especially when we were filming for the parts where I had to follow Evan (main character) all the way from his room and down the stairs while still making sure that the camera was steady and not too shaky while walking down the stairs.

As for the post-production and editing, we used Adobe Premiere Pro to cut and select some parts of the original footage that we found to be the best for the video and merged them in the order that followed our script. We also added different background music to make it look and sound more lively and aesthetic for the user experience. For the sushi video we wanted a way to show how far away Sushi Counter feels compared to the two other options. We wanted to do this in a way which was light hearted and fun so we went with a shooting stars meme video. To do this we had to create a gif from the scene of Evan jumping and remove the background to the noverlay it over the  different backgrounds. After that it was a matter of setting the motion, rotations and the like to get it to move around the screen.

CODE
We decided to host our video like one of the YouTube pages as if it was actually uploaded there, and so we recreated the exact layout using CSS Grid. When we thought about the user experience, we felt that there were too many elements for the user to focus on, such as the like and the dislike button interactivity, sub-video panels, channel name, video title, video description, views etc., so we decided to include a page where there is only a search bar visible on the screen. We were initially going to have the user type the title of the video, but we ended up including a typewriter plugin where the text wrote itself on the screen, and a search button for the user to click on.

Clicking the search button takes the user to the YouTube page, and by having the title of the video already shown to the user on the previous page (in the search bar), we gave the user the starting/ focus point.

In terms of interactivity, there are like and dislike buttons that the user can click (although it doesn’t let them “dislike” the video), sub-videos on the right that plays when the mouse hovers over, and a read more/less button that controls the length of the video descriptions.

Reflection/Evaluation:
The smooth coding process helped us create the concept and theme we were striving to achieve; to make the website seem more YouTube-like, we were inspired by the “low-cost” YouTube thumbnails and so we recreated one of our own using Adobe Photoshop. Overall, we were able to achieve what we had initially aimed for, that is to recreate a YouTube website with interactions that would add a bit of humor and usability.
